What was the word for water that?
And what was the word for to buy
So if we wanted to say something like that you bought it is not my problem, that you might have bought it is not my problem
The fact that you bought it is not my problem.
We can just start with ke and put the verb in the mood tense and we get this feeling.
The fact that you may have bought it.
We're doing the same thing in English.
May have with this may we are getting some mood.
So let's start.
Speaking informally.
That you bought it, that you may have bought it.
So comprar becomes compraron, comprara, compraras.
Good.
Don't forget your it just because you're concentrating so much on the verb, huh?
Is not my problem
No es mi problema.
Good.
Maybe you want to say something like that you told him is not my problem.
So to tell we can use the seer to tell or to say or kontar we saw as well.
Kontar means to count or to recount.
So let's use Kantar.
So that you told him, the fact that you told him is not my problem speaking informally still.
Que contaras que le contaras no is my problema.
Que le contaras no is my problema.
Good.
In English, I should say, although I have this uh London English, so so often I don't say, I should say, if I were you.
Now I was
is the normal past tense now from to be I was so we change was to were to get the past mood tense in English if I were you hypothetical past
In Spanish, whenever we speak about the past hypothetically after si, after if, we will use the mood tense.
So for example, what was the verb to be able to can related to power?
Poder.
Now, if you want to make the they form in the past, they could, they were able to.
There's a slight change.
The pod that you would be left with after taking air away from pod air turns to put.
So how would you say they were able to using the point in the past?
Pudieron.
Good.
So from this base we can form the mood tense.
So if you wanted to say something like, if I could, if I could cook, I would cook.
So if I could si pudiera to cook or to kitchen cocinar good si pudiera cocinar I would cook
So to find wood you must look back at I would like it would please me.
Megustaria.
Good.
So there you have your wood.
So I would cook
Cocinaria.
Good.
Si pudiera cocinar, cocinaria.
How would you say if I could cancel it, I would.
So if I could cancel it, I would cancel it.
I would.
So I would cancel it.
Lo Cancellaria.
Good.
Si pudiera cancelar lo cancelaria.
What was the to have, the to have that we use to go into the past?
Now when Aber goes into the point in the past, that first bit up
of aber when you take off your er it changes for the point in the past it becomes ob h so how would you say
They had using the point in the past going from Aber and this ab of Aber will become Ub when we make the point in the past
Ubieron.
Good.
So we can say, if you had told me it.
So speaking informally, if you had told me it
How would you say that?
If you had told me it
I would have gone.
So if you had told me, if you had told me it, I would have gone.
So now we need would have.
We leave everything else at the door.
So how do we get would have from Aber?
Abriah.
Abriya.
Good.
The E falls away.
Abriya.
So I would have gone
Abría Ido.
Good.
So altogether, if you had told me it, if you had told me it, I would have gone.
Si me lo hubieras contado, habría ido.
Good
If we had known, we would have gone.
We would have gone.
Good.
What is to say?
There.
And what is they saw point in the past?
Bieron.
What was my house?
Micasa.
Your house in Fumili.
Tu casa.
You remember how they say his house, her house, your house, Fumily, their house
Sukasa.
Sukasa, good.
So how would you say if you saw their house?
If you saw their house
Good.
Siviera su casa, how would you say if you saw it?
You would understand it.
Let's speak formally.
If you saw it, you would understand it.
Speaking formally
Si lo vieron, the line in the past, very good.
Si lo viera, lo comprendería.
Or we could use entender, which also means to understand.
Si lo viera, lo entendería.
I should mention that there also exists an alternative form for the past mood tense, the past subjunctive.
with ase or iese so you may hear hablase instead of hablara or entendies instead of entendiera
Komiese instead of komiera, komiesemos instead of komieramos.
But how much that alternative form is used really depends on the dialect
the main way, the most common way of using the past subjunctive is the one that we've learnt here.
And there's no difference between the two in meaning.
They are just two versions of the same tense
So you don't need to worry about using ablasse instead of ablara, for example, but you would need to recognize it if you hear it or read it somewhere.